#summary Configuring EchoMonitor.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured,Configuration

*Important*: EchoMonitor configuration file location was changed starting from the version 0.9.10 - pay close attention to this document!

== Introduction ==

EchoMonitor can be configured through a simple XML file _configuration.xml_ that resides in the EchoMonitor local storage folder.

This document has vital information about the first-time configuration of EchoMonitor and for more advanced configuration.

== Requirements ==

 # Write access to the EchoMonitor configuration file.
 # Administrator rights on the EchoSystem Server (ESS) to reconfigure capture appliances.

== First-time configuration ==

Before running EchoMonitor for the first time you will need to:
 # add information about your Echo360 capture appliance(s) into the configuration file _configuration.xml_.
 # reconfigure the capture appliances to accept connections without encryption (http connections instead of https connections).

=== Adding your appliances information to the configuration ===

You can find the configuration file for EchoMonitor from the local data store directory for EchoMonitor (on Windows Vista and 7 - `C:\Users\[username]\AppData\Roaming\EchoMonitor.[random string]\Local Store\`; on MacOS X - `/Users/[username]/Library/Preferences/EchoMonitor/Local Store/`).

If the configuration file doesn't exist when the EchoMonitor starts then EchoMonitor will create the configuration file and inform the user about the location of the new configuration file.

The configuration file is in XML format and can be edited with Notepad or WordPad (on Windows) or TextEdit (on MacOS X) or with your favourite text-editor.

Normally a new configuration file looks like this:
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
	<appliances>
		<appliance>
			<name>My Appliance 1</name>
			<address>http://192.168.0.1:8443</address>
			<username>instructor</username>
			<password>password</password>
		</appliance>
	</appliances>
	<audioErrorLevel>5000</audioErrorLevel>
	<audioErrorLimit>20</audioErrorLimit>
	<audioWarningLimit>10</audioWarningLimit>
	<debug>false</debug>
	<defaultLocale>en_US</defaultLocale>
	<hideLiveStreamInfo>false</hideLiveStreamInfo>
	<hideSourceLabel>false</hideSourceLabel>
	<hideVUMeter>false</hideVUMeter>
	<infoTimerActive>3000</infoTimerActive>
	<infoTimerIdle>10000</infoTimerIdle>
	<showFirstApplianceAutomatically>true</showFirstApplianceAutomatically>
	<showRoomSelection>true</showRoomSelection>
	<startFullscreen>true</startFullscreen>
</configuration>
}}}

You will need to edit the section between _<appliances>_ and _</appliances>_ to add your own appliances information to the configuration:
||<name>My Appliance 1</name>|| change the text _My Appliance 1_ to describe the name of your own appliance. ||
||<address>https://192.168.0.1:8443</address>|| the address in here has to be the same web address that you would use to access this appliances ad-hoc interface in the browser. ||
||<username>instructor</username>|| make sure that the username in here is the same that is assigned to the rooms _Generic User Name_ in the EchoSystem Server. ||
||<password>password</password>|| make sure that the password in here is the same that is assigned to the rooms _Generic Password_ in the EchoSystem Server. ||

=== Reconfiguring capture appliances ===

Because the default https certificate on the Echo360 capture appliances is not accepted by most of the browsers and other software as legitimate you will need to allow EchoMonitor to connect to the capture appliances without using the encrypted connections.

To achieve this set the Access Protocol option to "HTTP" under the capture appliances settings page (Configuration -> Devices -> ...) and save the new settings.

*NB!* This setting makes your capture appliance vulnerable to network traffic sniffing and possible leak of usernames and passwords used to connect to the appliance. The authors of EchoMonitor will not take any responsibilities regarding the safety of your Echo360 capture appliances configuration.

== Advanced configuration ==

This section will describe all the advanced configuration options available for EchoMonitor.

||<audioErrorLevel>5000</audioErrorLevel>|| This sets the minimum input audio volume level that EchoMonitor will accept as normal. When the input audio volume drops below this value the EchoMonitor will initiate actions to soon inform the user about possible problems regarding audio input on the capture appliance. On Echo360 capture appliances the input audio levels are measured between 0 - 32000. ||
||<audioErrorLimit>20</audioErrorLimit>||  ||
||<audioWarningLimit>10</audioWarningLimit>||  ||
||<debug>false</debug>|| If this option is marked _true_ EchoMonitor will show a small debugging window at the bottom of the EchoMonitor interface. ||
||<defaultLocale>en_US</defaultLocale>|| This option sets the default locale for EchoMonitor that is used for the interface when the program starts up. ||
||<hideLiveStreamInfo>false</hideLiveStreamInfo>||  ||
||<hideSourceLabel>false</hideSourceLabel>|| If this option is marked _true_ then the labels in EchoMonitor on capture sources are hidden. If the option is marked _false_ then the labels in EchoMonitor on capture sources are shown. ||
||<hideVUMeter>false</hideVUMeter>|| Should the VU Meter, that shows the audio input volume level graphically, be hidden (true) of shown (false) in EchoMonitor. ||
||<showFirstApplianceAutomatically>true</showFirstApplianceAutomatically>|| If this option is marked _true_ EchoMonitor will connect automatically to the first capture appliance listed in the configuration right after EchoMonitor has started. Setting this option to _false_ means that the user has to select an appliance from the list of available appliances to initiate monitoring. ||
||<showRoomSelection>true</showRoomSelection>||  ||
||<startFullscreen>true</startFullscreen>|| If this option is marked _true_ EchoMonitor will start in fullscreen mode. If this option is marked _false_ the EchoMonitor application will start in windowed mode. You can also switch between fullscreen and windowed mode while the EchoMonitor application is running. ||