#summary Release notes to complement the 0.9.14 release of EchoMonitor
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

EchoMonitor 0.9.14 adds quite a few new features and fixes to the good old monitoring software.

= Details =

== New features: ==

 * *Controlling captures through the EchoMonitor interface.* It is now possible to *stop, pause, extend and resume current captures* through the EchoMonitor interface using simple coloured buttons under the monitoring images box or using keyboard shortcuts. *Controlling captures through EchoMonitor is enabled by default*. Keyboard shortcuts for controlling the captures are listed on the [Shortcuts] wiki page.

 * *Ad Hoc capture initialization through EchoMonitor.* It is now possible to start an Ad Hoc capture simply by clicking a button in the EchoMonitor interface. By default this functionality is disabled, but it can be enabled by adding the following directive to the EchoMonitor configuration file: `<enableAdHocCapture>false</enableAdHocCapture>`. There are two additional configuration directives that affect the behaviour or Ad Hoc captures (presented here with their default values): `<defaultAdHocDescription>Ad Hoc Capture</defaultAdHocDescription>` and `<defaultAdHocDuration>900</defaultAdHocDuration>`.

 * *Start monitoring from within EchoMonitor.* To start a monitoring session from within EchoMonitor, the user can use a simple keyboard shortcut *CTRL+M* - this will start a new monitoring session (in case there are no active captures in the room at the moment) with the default duration of 15 minutes (900 seconds). The default monitoring duration can be set with the configuration directive `<defaultMonitoringDuration>900</defaultMonitoringDuration>`. It is also possible to show a "Start Monitoring" button on the menu bar of EchoMonitor by adding the following configuration directive `<hideStartMonitoringButton>false</hideStartMonitoringButton>`. By default EchoMonitor enables the keyboard shortcut for starting monitoring but hides the button for it from the menu bar.

 * *Ignoring missing input signals (display and video).* In certain cases the SafeCapture HD appliance does not report a HDMI video or display signal as present and thus causes EchoMonitor to report an error with the respective signal. To circumvent this problem, it is now possible to use two new configuration directives to ignore the API signal-present information and just fetch the respective thumbnail image(s) for confidence monitoring. The configuration directives are *`<ignoreMissingDisplaySignal>false</ignoreMissingDisplaySignal>`* and *`<ignoreMissingVideoSignal>false</ignoreMissingVideoSignal>`*. *By default EchoMonitor does not ignore the signal-present information reported by the capture appliances API*.